You were there?
Every time.
And where was it held?
Describe it.
I have two memories of Muster.
One time it was held out in front of the administration building.
And I believe we were seniors then.
I think.
And it seems I recall before that it was held in G. Raleigh.
But am I right?
I think so.
It was held outside.
Muster was a big deal.
A lot of people were coming back to campus that hadn't been there in a long time.
You know, it was a homecoming.
I do not recall if they inducted classes at Muster like they do now and the soil loss and all that.
If they did, I didn't know anything about it.
Did you ever hear any names called out at Muster that were familiar to you?
Any people you had known that had already gone to Vietnam and given their lives?
Not that I remember, to tell you the truth.
I really don't.
See, for me as a faculty member, that was always painful.
Right.
To hear the name called of somebody I had had as a senior two years earlier.
No, you get to the local clubs now and you hear the names and you know most of them.
Let's see.
Earl Rudder.
describe him, what he looked like, your impression of him?
I never shook his hand, but as far as saying I actually met him or ever knew him, that would be stretching the truth.
As I recall, he wasn't a tremendously tall man.
He had a tremendous amount of respect from everyone on the campus, and I think he had it from the faculty as well as the students.
There weren't any, you weren't going to have a riot or any insurrection on campus with him there, you know, just strength.
Okay, Jack Williams.
Dr. Williams met him once or twice.
See, he came in about the time I was going out.
He was actually, was that the spring of 71 when he was inaugurated?
It was a big gala.
And it was a big deal.
I never really knew him.
I was graduating about the time he came in.
His name's on my phone.
And going to that inauguration, did that give you any impression of him and his qualities or anything, his abilities?
Well, at the time we were probably too young to give it that much thought, frankly.
And, but, you know, he seemed like a fellow who knew what he was doing, came with good credentials.
As far as how hard we as students studied all that, I would say probably not very hard.
Describe the community of College Station as you understood it.
What businesses were where?
What did you, students, where did you all go to do any shopping or dining or playing?
What was at Northgate?
Lupo's was on the corner.
And then there was a hamburger place down there.
What do they call it now?
It's right there at the intersection.
Dixie Chicken?
No.
Chicken wasn't there.
Yeah, further west.
Yeah, further down there was a hamburger place there.
In town there was a, it wasn't too much.
There was a Mexican restaurant we used to go to and I can't remember the name of it.
We did go to Mall Bell's once or twice for dinner.
Went in the kitchen one time, never went back.
Wasn't a whole lot of shopping done around there really.
Gibsons was across the street, you know, over there on 6th.
Red materials.
Yeah, exactly.
We didn't have academies or all those things in those days.
There was a clothing store downtown, I went down and bought a suit downtown for the job interviews.
Waldrop's.
Down in Bryan, probably was.
Now, how often did you go down to Bryan?
Not very often.
Didn't have much reason to.
My last couple of years, I was running tracks to and from Houston a lot.
That's where my girlfriend lives.
Let's see, and you didn't ride the bus much or the train?
No, never rode the train, never rode the bus.
Were there any national or international events
that you remember as seeming very important to you while you were an undergraduate?
Did anything happen off campus that... Well, Vietnam was certainly on our minds.
Did you all talk about that?
Oh yeah, we sure did.
Had we not been in college, we would have been drafted.
We all knew that.
We knew most of us were going to be commissioned.
In those days, most of us had contracts.
There were a few DNC, but not that many.
We pretty much assumed that that's where we would go, hoping like, heck, it wouldn't happen.
By then, we had heard of two or three people who we knew that died in Vietnam.
There was one fellow, he was a wing commander, his name was Butch Balridge.
He was one, he was a
He was shot down over there and the word got around that he was shot down and I'm not sure he was ever found.
Did you all have any tack officers or anybody else in the Corps that had been to Vietnam and come back?
Yeah, we had a captain, fellas, I think his name was Briscoe.
He was a military science instructor.
I think he had been back.
He was an airborne ranger and all that stuff, so I'm pretty sure he had been.
And there were no big-time Washington or Hollywood personalities that came to the campus.
What were the most popular student indulgences of the time?
If students were going to kick over the traces on a Saturday night, what did they do?
Beer.
Where'd you get it?
We used to have a beer bust a couple times a year.
We'd have it out on the Brazos and it was an outfit beer bust and somebody who was 21 would go get it.
We used my pickup, my old pickup to haul most of that stuff around.
Where on the Brazos would the party be held?
If I recall...
We'd take 21 out like we're going to Caldwell.
And somewhere where that railroad bridge is, we'd turn in there.
And usually there was some farmer or whatever to let us use this riverfront.
And was this a male and female party?
No, it was just the outfit.
Just guys.
You wouldn't think of having any girl there.
Was anybody appropriately cautious about having a driver that had not consumed much?
I hate to say it, but probably not.
This would be just the outfit?
Just the outfit.
Were fish?
Yeah, it was all classes.
It would be all classes.
And was there any particular timing of these?
It seemed to me they were in the spring.
But it wasn't the week before or the week after something?
No.
So-and-so got engaged?
No, not that I remember.
And about when would it begin and end?
Usually on Saturday afternoon, probably start mid-afternoon and end up before dark.
Oh, before dark?
Yes.
I always remember getting back before dark.
Whiskey Bridge?
Whiskey Bridge was still there when I was there.
It was gone by the time I was 21 because when I was 21 you could buy it there.
But if there was a
court trip or football weekend and you wanted something, an upperclassman would go get it for you.
By the time I was 21 it wasn't there anymore.
Were there any places in Bryan that you knew of that sold hard liquor under the table or around the door?
I haven't heard of any.
Was hard lickers gone by that time?
I've heard of it, but it wasn't there when I was there.
What was it?
It was a place down south on Welburn Road where you could buy beer.
And it was gone by the time I got there in 59.
It was run by a man whose name was H-Y-R-D-L-I-C-K, a good check name.
It should be H-Y-R-D-L-I-C-K, but pronounced Hard Liquors.
There was an old timer that asked me about that, a good friend of mine, class of 40, he knew about it, but I'd never heard of it.
All right, so beer, whiskey, what other alcoholic beverages did many people drink?
That was it.
Okay.
What other indulgences?
Tobacco?
Oh, I guess we all smoked a little bit of cigarettes or cigars or whatever.
We had a lot of guys who dipped and chewed.
Some still do, some still quit.
You compare, I guess what's available today to what was available then, there's no comparison.
Did you and your buddies even know the words of marijuana, cocaine?
I'd heard of it but I wouldn't know it if you put it in my face.
Did you ever hear of anybody on campus using any of that while you were a student?
After I was gone I heard of some people that said they used it when they were on campus or I was told they did.
I was never aware of it.
Alright, let's go back to football.
A football weekend in college station.
When did the activities begin that were part of that whole... Friday afternoon since the last class was over.
Generally by then you're...
date or girlfriend was beginning to show up or would show up sometime in the early evening.
And, you know, we'd usually, for those things, like I said earlier, you had some sort of a town hall.
And if there was a campus function like a town hall or whatever, we went to them.
I don't know if we thought we were supposed to or it just wasn't anything else to do or we liked them.
But I remember going and enjoying.
It was kind of a big deal, you know.
Then you'd have your march in on Saturday.
Wait, wait, wait.
What happened?
I'm sorry, midnight yellow practice.
Yeah, yeah.
Describe that.
Well.
What'd you wear?
First when I went to, I think I just wore a pair of those fatigue pants and a t-shirt.
And I think as fish, we wore a combat boots or something.
Our XO got us out in the quad, and I think he was drunk.
And he was telling us all about what men at Yale practice is and lock your arms and stay together and all this kind of stuff.
Boy, man, this is going to be violent.
You know, this is going to be rough.
Well, we had a good time.
It was great, you know.
And it started about when?
We left the quad about 1130.
We left from the quad.
We'd march, say march, we'd go as groups from the quad.
The band would come through there and then you'd follow the band.
Now everybody kind of just goes over there.
And you took your dates.
Yes, sir.
Yeah, lucky enough to have one.
All right.
And it was over about when?
1230.
Didn't last all that long.
Do you remember anything, any bad conduct at midnight yell practices?
No, everybody was kind of rowdy and frisky, but I don't remember anything that was harmful.
I don't remember anybody ever getting hurt.
And the fables were of what nature?
They were pretty graphic.
Things you couldn't do today.
Things you shouldn't have done then.
Alright then, Saturday morning, when did things begin?
Well, probably mid morning, noon time.
We were usually always out late the night before.
We had a lot of night games in those days.
So your march in might not begin until 5 o'clock.
So you'd have lunch with your date or whatever bum around and get ready for the game.
She'd have to go back to where she'd stay and get all dressed up.
Because the girls went to the games dressed up.
And we wore uniforms.
The girls wore nice dresses.
Nobody wore shorts and things like they do today.
And I'm not saying anything wrong with that.
We just didn't do it that way.
If your parents came up, your dad was in a suit.
And my dad didn't even wear a suit to work.
I mean, he was a machinist.
But if he came to A&M for a football game, he wore a suit.
Like going to church.
All right, then you and your unit marched in.
Yes, sir.
Where did you leave your date?
They'd have a ticket going to the stands.
Would she normally come to the quad?
Oh, yeah.
The girls, the families would all come to the quad just like they do today.
And they would follow us or walk alongside of us until we got to where we were going into Kyle Field.
At that point they'd peel off and go into the seats and then after it was over we'd meet up there.
We never missed a football game.
Are there any, that 10-7 game, any other games that you remember with great, great either joy or sadness as an Aggie fan?
Probably one of the saddest games we ever had, but we played rice at home when I was a senior.
It was a cold, miserable, nasty day.
And they beat the fool out of us.
And that was our last, wait a minute, was that our last home game?
Yeah, last home game as a student.
And it was cold, it was wet, and we got beat.
We were terrible, terrible.
Let's see, we've done, alright.
Final review, you said family came.
What kind of world did you think you were about to enter?
Well I was ready to get out and go to work.
I wasn't sure what I was going to be doing.
I'd interviewed with a lot of companies there on campus and was invited to visit some and never got a job offer.
Anyway, I was just ready to get out and I was wanting to get into the business world.
I'd grown up in a blue collar area and I didn't want to do that.
I thought if I had an office and a suit, you know, you had arrived.
I'm not so sure that's really the case, but looking back,
How well did the A&M experience prepare you for the real world?
I think pretty well.
What were the ingredients in that preparation that have proven to be important?
Well, hard to say.
I was a mediocre student and I had to work a lot harder to get a C or V than maybe a lot of guys had to do to get an A. Work never bothered me.
Even as a kid before I got to A&M working at the department.
I think the ability to meet people.
The core forced me to meet people.
The core forced me to make friends.
Had I gone to high school with all these guys, I probably would have barely known them.
But take the same bunch and put them at A&M.
In high school, I was just an average Joe Blow, everyday kid.
Not too involved.
Just went to school.
And at A&M, you couldn't be that way.
You just couldn't be that way.
Did getting the ring mean anything important to you?
No, that's a big deal.
I'll tell you that ring story.
Yeah, it did.
My best friend, Steve Hughes, and I were at Camp Eagle at Fort Sill for summer camp.
Army summer camp.
So last day, I had the car up there, he didn't.
Camp's over, we're all packing our stuff up, loading our cars up.
He and I were gonna ride back together.
So the traffic was terrible.
He was in one section of the camp, I was in the other.
So I was leaving mine, the traffic was all backed up.
And I finally got over there to pick up Steven.
He was the last guy sitting on the street.
He thought I'd blown him off and left.
Which I wouldn't have done, but I'm glad he thought that anyway.
So our mission was to drive to College Station to get our rings, and this was 9 o'clock in the morning or 8 o'clock in the morning or whatever.
So we'd make a beeline from Fort Sill directly to College Station, go to the registrar's office, which is where they used to get the rings, walked in there, and here we are, red-skinned from the red sand of Oklahoma and probably looked like Indians, walked in and said,
We're here.
We like to pick up our ring.
Sir, the ring off is closed at noon.
He said, well, we just drove straight here from Fort Sill to get our rings.
I'm going to Houston.
He's going to San Antonio.
And can't you do something for him?
Well, it was a minute.
So anyway, goes back in the back, gets a lady, unlocks the safe.
We go in with her, and that's why we got our rings.
Oh, that's good.
Do you remember who that was by now?
No, I don't.
Not sure.
So that would have been the summer of 70?
Summer of 70.
You never have lost the ring or anything?
No.
How often do you take it off?
Never.
Very seldom.
I mean, I don't know when I take it off.
What are the ingredients that create Aggie spirit?
I don't know how to answer that.
It's an overused term, but I guess camaraderie ship.
The friendships you made, the... I don't know.
Not only do you get to know the people you went to school with, you know their parents.
You get to know their wives.
You get to know all their kids.
It's a big family.
I don't know exactly how to define the spirit.
If somebody was saying, we're going to eliminate certain events,
Which ones would you say, no, no, no, those are essential.
We don't want to do away with.
Well, mustard is our most important tradition, I would say.
Silver taps.
Help me out with some of the others, but if you're in the core of the core trips, those are the types of things that kind of bond people together.
Bonfire.
Yeah, bonfire.
Midnight yell practice.
Some of these things, like midnight yoga practice and all that, I feel maybe I've kind of outgrown that, but I still go.
See, as I think of these, some of them are serious, serious, but some of them at the time are kind of lighthearted.
But it's like there are certain times when you and I are supposed to chuckle,
and other times when they're supposed to be darn serious.
And I see that as kind of the same thing.
I think it's really important.
It's not an event particularly, but the Corps has struggled for the last several years to maintain its numbers and to get growth.
And I don't know how to keep that up, but I think it's really important that it continue and hopefully it will grow.
One that I almost overlooked.
diversity of the student body.
Were there some non-Anglos?
A few, but not very many.
How were they treated?
As well as anybody.
Do you remember any particular nicknames that a politically correct person would have identified as?
No, I don't.
You don't remember?
Anybody Jewish or Catholic or Hispanic or black being identified by any particular?
I don't.
I had to go up.
I had a, well, Larry Levine up here.
Big Jewish guy.
Good friend of mine.
Big real estate guy in Houston.
That kind of stuff never crossed my mind.
That's the impression I have.
And I'm not saying I'm so good or any of that, but it didn't make any difference to me.
I may not even know he was a Jewish at the time, to tell you the truth.
Or if Thibodeau was a Cajun, or I grew up with all those kind of people.
We had a couple of blacks in the court.
How were they treated?
Just like everybody else, to my knowledge.
If anybody was ever harassed or picked on, either upper class or under class because of their color or their ethnic background or anything, I wasn't aware of it.
I didn't hear of any at that time.
Let's see, you said you knew Hector?
Hector.
Why was he picked as corps commander, do you think?
He picked because he was qualified.
That's what he thinks too.
I don't think there's any doubt about it.
Let's see, oh, not asking if you were a part of, did you ever hear of any secret fraternities?
Never did.
I have lately, but I never heard of them when I was in school.
I'm getting very, on that question, I'm getting very different interests.
Some are saying exactly what you are, then others, with the look on their face, it gives me the impression they might know a great deal more than they are willing to share.
And I've tried to say, you know, share with me whatever you can.
Okay, we're... Now this question came up a few years ago.
My kids asked me if I had ever heard of them in, what do they call them, I guess, secret organizations.
And honestly, I have.
I didn't hear about them when I was there.
So if they're there, they're certainly kept quiet.
Let's see.
Have I...
left out anything that you particularly wanted to share as you thought about this?
I don't think so.
I was concerned about what you're going to ask me about having the answers for it.
Alright, so let's try to sum it up.
What did it mean to you?
What has it meant to you that you went to A&M?
What effect has it had on your life?
It either changed my life or made my life.
I'm not sure how to
put it into words, but in the, I was very lucky.
In the environment I grew up in was all, we lived right in the middle of the refineries down in Portland, a good place to grow up, you know, a good place to be a kid.
You couldn't get in too much trouble.
And if you did something wrong, your neighbor down the street is going to call your house and they're going to go about it before you get home.
I had not seen anything other than that.
And I was very lucky that my uncle just picked me up and said, this is where you're going to go and I'm going to take care of it.
He had no children and I was named after him.
That's luck.
Somebody like that really loves you.
That doesn't happen that often.
So I got to A&M and got to meet
Most of the kids I met were in a higher economic class than what I came from.
And I knew that.
And you'd get to go to their homes, and I'd go to somebody's home who, I'd go look at it today, it's a modest home.
I thought they were rich.
Their daddy worked for Kelly, had a civil service job, lived right over here on my captain.
These people are wealthy.
They weren't, they're just working people, you know.
And I don't know, maybe I guess hopefully set my sights up a little bit because I knew what I wanted to do long term.
I didn't have all the details worked out in my mind.
I probably still don't.
But I want to own a nice home and have a nice wife and kids.
That's kind of how it's going.
I've just been lucky.
Without a degree from A&M, I wouldn't have met after I got out the people that I've met.
It wasn't all those folks we just had lunch with.
I wouldn't have met Mr. Grona, who basically helped me get set up in the business.
All those types of things.
So, I don't know what life would be like had that not occurred.
the chance of getting involved in the former students association through the local club here and so on, that's something I never thought Hespa would ever come my way.
So what feelings do you hold in your heart for you now?
Oh, everything.
That's very, very dear to me.
Very, very near and dear to me.
I'd do anything for the school that I could.
That's why I, when I was asked last year if I'd served as the president-elect of the association, I have a
Frankly, I have no desire to be particularly well-known.
I don't have a big ego.
I'm a terrible speech maker, as you can tell from just listening to me talk.
I'll learn, I'll get better, you know, before I get into all that.
But for what A&M did for me, we paid for it and all, but, you know, for what A&M did for me and what it's done for my kids, I'll do anything that I can.
And I'll allow the time.
I'll make it work.